## Macro

Looking the scope of our selected challenges, the problem we were trying to solve pretty much covered the **supply chain** and **distribution** aspects of things.

_Our initial idea? Just put a tracker on the packages and hook that up with some cloud IoT provider_.

While the solution to tracking delivery and distribution seemed relatively straightforward then, we realised that this solution was very naive (**cost, point of failure, doesn't solve other challenge statements**).

> _So, how do we quickly distribute vaccines to everyone?_

Right now, vaccines are presumably brought to distribution points where they are dispensed to civilians. With this existing model, there is no way that weaving technology into this process would benefit the situation.

> As a software developer focusing on a digital product, it is very difficult to see that sometimes, **digitalising processes is not the best way to solve things**.

_**If we built an app/website to track distribution progress and medical personnel, we would be complicating the distribution progress even more.** It's an epidemic and people are already panicky, installing an app/registering with your website is the last thing they will want to do._

## Philosophy

So, we took a step back and laid down core principles that our solution should follow.

> "During an epidemic, it is everyone’s responsibility to do their part to curb the outbreak of any infectious disease."

Our solution to this issue thus took a more society-driven approach. Our goal was to create something that empowers the civilian community to do their part.

## A Decentralised Approach

**What if civilians did the distribution in a chain fashion?**

Propogating packages containing vaccine payload in pre-computed routes— can this be a faster, smarter way to distribute vaccines? How would we then track and monitor the distribution process?

From a technical perspective, keeping track of packages and devices with a conventional client-server model at such a scale is costly.

### Going off the grid

So, this led me to formulate an actually fully decentralised distribution model: not only in the sense of physical distribution, but also for the app that would facilitate this distribution.

We could keep track of all local information about nearby civilians and the distribution process on a P2P Network, and only rely on a backend to verify and register new peers onto the network?

### ⚠️ WARNING: Approaching blockchain territory

While the application of blockchain technology certainly did loom in my mind when discussing, I thought to leave it out because:

- It's a 3-day hackathon, we don't have the time
- Despite the decentralised nature of the distribution graph, data would still need to be marshalled through some form of server side, to a database, and fed into some analytics engine to produce visualisations.

This idea did seem pretty cool, so my team did a quick writeup along with a simple technical model, and we started work on it.

[Next post >](https://github.com/heka-project/blog/blob/master/sean/3.md)
